# BAKERY-AND-LOGISTICS-RECORD-ANALYSIS

## Bakery Reports Analysis

### Introduction

A bakery is any factory where foods made from flour are produced. This includes bread, cookies, cake, pastry and others. The bakery business is one of the most profitable businesses in Nigeria. This is no surprise, Nigerians eat a lot of pastries and baked foods, most especially bread. Bread is the fastest, stable and easiest meal to consumed. Bread does not require any form of preparation on the part of the consumer. It is consumed by all and sundry- the old, young poor and rich consume bread on daily basis. It one of the best investment one can think of. It can be eaten with beverages or other foods such as moimoi, beans, fried/scrambled eggs, French toasted, akara, or even stew. It is also one of the cheapest meals which many can afford. A small loaf of bread can go for N100. Bread is a common meal staple, often used as breakfast in many Nigerian households. With the rapid increase in population of Nigeria and migration to the urban areas from the rural areas, there is need to increase the number of breads producing firms in the country. Despite the increase in the prices of bread the demand for bread keeps increasing Despite the increase in flour and other raw materials for bread making, investment into the industry is still very lucrative. 

### Profitability Analysis for thr Bakery Business

Bakery business (bread) is one of the lucrative businesses in Nigeria as bread is widely consumed in Nigeria. In fact, bread is the third staple food in Nigeria. There is virtually no household in Nigeria where bread is not consumed and, in some family, bread is their main food. This increased demand has made bakery business a very lucrative one in Nigeria. In Nigeria, baking related businesses creates more than 50 billion Naira average income per year. There are about 5,000 bakeries in the South West alone. Lagos State is the highest bread consumer in Nigeria as about 10 million loaves of bread are consumed in Lagos State every day. Statistics reveals that Nigeria consumes about 150millions loafs per day, making bread one of the most consumables in Nigeria. It will interest you to know that in Nigeria bread sector, the small-scale bakers dominate the market. According to KPMG report in 2016, Nigeria’s bread sub-sector is growing at a faster pace, with 72 percent of the $621 million industry dominated by small- and medium-scale bakers. In one of the Nigerian most reliable food research report for 2018, bread and other baked product has been on top of fast food and snacks by volume for the past three consecutive years. Profit remains consistently attractive despite rise in the cost of production especially due to the last recession. Bakery also top the list of employers in the food industry as it generates nearly 53% of employment in the food production sector. Top list of bakery products according to market demand include Bread (made with flour, wheat and fruit) :45%• Cakes (events and cup size) :25%. Different kinds of Pies: 15 %P. Others including pizzas 15%. There is growth forecast of 5% in the market for bread and 2% increase in other baked products in the next five years. This is due to Nigeria economy crawling out of recession, increased minimum wage and innovation in the bakery business industry that makes products of better quality. The bakery business is such that you do not have to be scared about the availability of market because bread is always in demand. 


### Business Marketing and Distribution Channels for the Bakery Business

To advertise and promote the business, the business will have to be introduce to retailers selling bread and use the opportunity to find out what bread they sell and what they will like you to supply them. Having armed yourself with the exact product you want to supply, the next thing is to find the retailers. Talk to provision shop owners, Aboki kiosks and bus stop bread women. These sets of people are your biggest prospects as far as sliced bread supply business is concerned. The understanding is that many artisans and children patronize these outlets and are always on the lookout for the cheap stuff that can be found within this price range. Each person you talked to that accepted to get your supply, find out how many loafs of sliced bread he will be getting. At the end of the marketing, calculate the estimated number of loafs these people demanded for and base your buy on this. 

## REPORT ANALYSIS BETWEEN BAKERY AND LOGISTICS 

The report showed that the total expenditure of Logistics Department is N402,000, the total income is N885,000 while making a profit of N 487,000 within February and August.
The expenditure for the month of  February  is  N 70,600 while the profit is N 37,900; March has the  expenditure of 64, 000 while the profit is N 60, 500; April has the expenditure of N 60, 000 with the  profit of N 70,000;   May has the expenditure   of N 29,300 with  the profit of N 28,200;  June has the expenditure  of N 59,200 with the profit of  N 110, 000, July has the expenditure   of N 76,000 with  the profit of N 96,200;  August has  the expenditure of 47, 700 while making  profit of N 79,100.
The month of May experienced the lowest declination in profit making while June has   the most profitable distribution in the analysis.
The first quarter has the total expenditure of N 102, 000 while making a profit of N 233, 000.
The second quarter has the total expenditure of N 209,000 while making a profit of N 357,000.
The third quarter has the total expenditure of N 175,000 while making a profit of N 295, 000.
Bakery total expenditure is said to be N 632, 000; N 762,000 is the total sales while making total profit of N 130,000.  On the other hand, the logistics has the total expenditure of N 402,000 with a total income of N N885,000 making a profit of   N 487, 000.
Bakery business made a loss of N 17,000 despite investing N 187,000 in May; by June 139, 000 is incurred on the expenses while making a huge drastic profit of N 47,000; N 155,000 was invested in the month of July with a profit of N 69,000; finally, by August, N 151, 000 was invested with a profit of N 31,000. This show losses in the business ratio as the expense and profit have a great gap between them. 
Logistics business has the profit of N 38,000 with the expenditure of N 71,000; in march N 64,000 while expenditure is N 60500; April has a profit of N 70, 000 with the expenditure of N 60, 000; May has the profit of N 29,300 with the expenditure of 28,200; June has the profit of N110,000 with the expenditure of N 59, 200; July has the profit of N96,200 with the expenditure of N 76, 000; lastly in August, N 79, 100 was made with the expenditure of N47, 700.  This shows a positive relationship in the business ratio.
Conclusively, there is a huge profit margin of 38% between logistics and bakery business. The Bakery business has 17% profit ratio while logistics has 55% profit ratio.

### RECOMMENDATIONS 

Based on the diagnostic analysis, some of these recommendations would be made to predict an aggressive sales output and positive income rate as follows: 1. Target Area: One of the bases of feasibility study is knowing your environment well and where you would want your goods/services delivered. Once your territory is being marked, you would be able to work directional wise in achieving the similar goal as profit making inclusive with the consideration of restaurant/eatery, superstore, bus stop bread women, Aboki kiosks and shops. 2. Supply Chain: For any developing business, there have to be a constant supply of goods in order to ensure stability with time. Business moves when goods/services can easily be in reach of hand. Paving different ways for a logistics plan that ensures the stable and steady delivery of fresh bread to consumers’ points on a daily basis or as may be required. This can be achieved by the use of motor-bike for that purpose. 3. Development of different marketing strategies that drive sales which in turn will boost profit. 4. Creation of more outlets at places with more inflow of people: There should be a targeted population like a roundabout with booths where they can easily buy their products especially when people are returning back from work. This can be functional mostly in the evening. 5. Engagement of local shops, (provision) stores, schools and other business parastatals: There would be an increase in sales if there are enough engagement in diversifying the Page 7 of 7 strength of the products with different approach. (Provision) stores, schools, shops can be engaged locally with the help of the logistics. This will help to increase the authenticity of publicity. 6. Design of Banners or signage: More attention can be drawn to your location and product with signage which can also drive sales and profit. 7. Communication and feedback: Customer review and feedback on the products is important. Consumer will buy more and recommend to others
